title: "COL334/672: Computer Networks"
collection: teaching
type: "Introductory Course"
permalink: /teaching/2024-diwali-col334
venue: LH111
date: Diwali'24
---
---

## Prerequisites 
- Data Structure and Algorithms: COL106
- Computer Architecture: COL216

## Grading
- Exams: 40%
- Assignments: 40%
- Quizzes: 20%
- Class Participation: 4%


## Course Policy
- **Honor Code**: The course will follow the [IITD Honor Code](https://academics.iitd.ac.in/sites/default/files/registration/forms/10_FORM%20H.pdf).
- **Late Policy**: Students are provided with a grace period of 96 hours for the entire
semester. The grace period is counted in a granuality of hours. For instance, if you submit an assignment 1h30m past
its deadline, 2 hours will be subtracted from the grace period. No late penalty is provided as long
as you have a positive grace period balance. After the grace period expires, your credit for the assignment
will be halved if it is submitted within a week after the deadline. No credit will be provided
for later submissions. You still need to submit all the assignments to pass the course. 
- **Audit Policy**: You need to score a B- grade, you need to attempt all assignments and score at least 50\%, and you need to attempt at least 50\% quizzes
- **Pass Criteria**: You need to score at least 30\% to pass the course (D Grade) 
- **Quiz**: There will be surprise quizzes. Best 90\% quizzes will be counted towards final grading.

## Recommended Textbooks
- Computer Networking: A Top-down Approach by Jim Kurose and Keith Ross 
- Computer Networks: A Systems Approach by Larry Peterson and Bruce Davie
- Computer Networks by Andrew Tanenbaum, David Weatherall, Nick Feamster

## Teaching Assistants 
Neha, Ankit, Manan Sharma, Pratham Agrawal, Prateek Bhaisora, Sagar Gangadhar Palled, Sourabh Tiwari, Manshi Sagar, and Vatsal Jingar

## Office hours
Wednesdays, 2-3PM, Bharti 423
